#1.1 Think About Time

A time management/productivity idea I learned about is giving yourself less time to accomplish a task.  For example, instead of having a whole day to do a project or errand, give yourself until noon to do it and get it done sooner instead of wasting time all day.  Time boxing is another good idea, especially if its a huge project.  I think it could be applied in a way as to divide the work depending on the features or specific topics that need to be tackled, such as each feature having only 30 minutes to focus on.  The other way is by time, such as an article that can be worked on in 30 minutes chunks.  I will definitely employ the time boxing idea because currently, I tend to procrastinate on huge projects because I don’t know where to begin until it becomes pressing and  I just tackle it head on and usually end up with a lot stress.  Time boxing will help me sit down and devote a stated amount of time, even if I have not begun it.  And who knows, that devoted amount of time could help me get a foothold and I’ll end up completing a sizable chunk.  For phase 0, I will work on a project for 25 to 30 minutes.  If I get in the zone, great!  If I don’t, take a 10 minute break and then do another chunk of time.  DBC (and quite a few friends who have been through these programs) have said that if you get stuck, the best thing you can do is take a break, a walk, or a small nap, depending how long you’ve been at work, which sounds like advice I’ll take!

#1.2 The Command Line

A shell is a user interface so that the OS can be accessed and “bash” is the language for the GNU OS.  Since I’ve used a PC for a year and did quite a bit of command line usage, this ended up pretty fun to see the differences in the commands being used.  The challenging part is the “Pipes and Redirection” portion so I will need to practice more on that so I can use the “< “ and “ > “ without relying on my notes.  I was able to use all the commands.  I believe the commands that are necessary to know now are the following: pwd, mkdir, cd and cd .. , less, cp, find, grep, echo, touch, and finally ctrl + c when the terminal goes haywire.  PWD: print working directory will let you know where you are.  LS will give you a list of files and directories in the directory you are in. MV will move (also rename) files and directories.  CD will change directories further down the tree and cd .. will move you back up the tree.  TOUCH is handy for creating (empty) files.  MKDIR will make a directory.  LESS will let you page through a file (and lets you go back as opposed to MORE).  RMDIR is to remove the directory and RM will remove a file.  HELP is used for “bash” internally so if looking for help or information on GNU OS commands (ls, mkdir, pwd, etc…) we use MAN which stands for manual.

#1.4 Forking and Cloning